# MA-Thesis-Work
Programs in Haskell, Agda, and Coq as formalizations of work in my MA thesis under the supervision of Dr. Leif Weatherby. Find the full Thesis as a .pdf in the repository; abstract below.
Abstract:
In three chapters, this master’s project aims to give a preliminary account of how innovations in mathematical structuralism (set theory, category theory, and type theory) may be used to formalize concepts in continental philosophical thought from Hegel’s system of logic to Marx’s political economy and Lacan’s psychoanalytic theory of language. The project draws influ- ence from the set-theoretical philosophy of Alain Badiou, while seeking to update the foundations in critical theory with more rigorous and higher- level mathematical theories. The chapter on Lacan begins with his own application of set theory in SXIX providing a critique of the limits of set theoretical foundations for modeling the psyche and constructing elementary category-theoretical diagrams of language, formulas of sexuation, and other key concepts in the Lacanian system. The chapter on Marx draws heavily from Gangle et al.’s work on modeling autopoietic systems with presheaves to argue that capitalism is a fundamentally autopoietic dynamical system. The chapter places particular emphasis on the role of primitive accumulation as an eigenbehavior of the recursive system. The chapter on Hegel looks closely at the Univalent Foundation’s Project’s Homotopy Type Theory (HoTT) Book as a new foundation for mathematics providing the tools to finally capture the fundamental concepts of universality, determinate negation, totality, and Spirit in Hegel’s system of German Idealism. The mathematical analysis is supplemented by Robert Brandom’s inferentialist reading of Hegel and insights from computation. All three chapters are guided by an effort to synthesize mathematical structuralism and philosophical structuralism into a single coherent intellectual project. With the help of Saunders Mac Lane’s “one universe” hypothesis for category theory, and Voevodsky’s univalence axiom (UA), the work revitalizes diverse notions of universality in critical theory.
